# nanonext 0.4.0.9000 (under development)

#### New Features

* `$context()` method added for creating new contexts from nano Objects using supported protocols (i.e. req, rep, surveyor, respondent) - this replaces the `context()` function for nano Objects.
* Added convenience auxiliary functions `is_nano()` and `is_aio()`.

#### Updates

* `subscribe()` / `unsubscribe()` now accept a topic in any of the standard types (not just character), allowing pub/sub to be used when sending integer, double, logical, complex, or raw vectors.
* For receives, if an error occurs in unserialisation or data conversion (e.g. mode was incorrectly specified), the received raw vector is now available at both `$raw` and `$data` if `keep.raw = TRUE`.
* Setting 'NANONEXT_TLS=1' now allows the downloaded NNG library to be built against a system mbedtls installation.
* Setting 'NANONEXT_ARM' is no longer required on platforms such as Raspberry Pi - the package configure script should now detect platforms that require the libatomic linker flag to be set automatically.
* Deprecated `send_ctx()`, `recv_ctx()` and logging are removed.
* All-round internal performance optimisations.

# nanonext 0.4.0

#### New Features

* New `stream()` interface exposes low-level byte stream functionality in the NNG library, intended for communicating with non-NNG endpoints, including but not limited to websocket servers.
* `ncurl()` adds an 'async' option to perform HTTP requests asynchronously, returning immediately with a 'recvAio'. Adds explicit arguments for HTTP method, headers (which takes a named list or character vector) and request data, as well as to specify if conversion from raw bytes is required.
* New `messenger()` function implements a multi-threaded console-based messaging system using NNG's scalability protocols (currently as proof of concept).
* New `nano_init()` function intended to be called immediately after package load to set global options.

#### Updates

* Behavioural change: messages have been upgraded to warnings across the package to allow for enhanced reporting of the originating call e.g. via `warnings()` and flexibility in handling via setting `options()`.
* Returned NNG error codes are now all classed as 'errorValue' across the package.
* Unified `send()` and `recv()` functions, and their asynchronous counterparts `send_aio()` and `recv_aio()`, are now S3 generics and can be used across Sockets, Contexts and Streams.
* Revised 'block' argument for `send()` and `recv()` now allows an integer value for setting a timeout.
* `send_ctx()` and `recv_ctx()` are deprecated and will be removed in a future package version - the methods for `send()` and `recv()` should be used instead.
* To allow for more flexible practices, logging is now deprecated and will be removed entirely in the next package version. Logging can still be enabled via 'NANONEXT_LOG' prior to package load but `logging()` is now defunct. 
* Internal performance optimisations.

# nanonext 0.3.0

#### New Features

* Aio values `$result`, `$data` and `$raw` now resolve automatically without requiring `call_aio()`. Access directly and an 'unresolved' logical NA value will be returned if the Aio operation is yet to complete.
* `unresolved()` added as an auxiliary function to query whether an Aio is unresolved, for use in control flow statements.
* Integer error values generated by receive functions are now classed 'errorValue'. `is_error_value()` helper function included.
* `is_nul_byte()` added as a helper function for request/reply setups.
* `survey_time()` added as a convenience function for surveyor/respondent patterns.
* `logging()` function to specify a global package logging level - 'error' or 'info'. Automatically checks the environment variable 'NANONEXT_LOG' on package load and then each time `logging(level = "check")` is called.
* `ncurl()` adds a '...' argument. Support for HTTP methods other than GET.

#### Updates

* `listen()` and `dial()` now return (invisible) zero rather than NULL upon success for consistency with other functions.
* Options documentation entry renamed to `opts` to avoid clash with base R 'options'.
* Common format for NNG errors and informational events now starts with a timestamp for easier logging.
* Allows setting the environment variable 'NANONEXT_ARM' prior to package installation
  + Fixes installation issues on certain ARM architectures
* Package installation using a system 'libnng' now automatically detects 'libmbedtls', removing the need to manually set 'NANONEXT_TLS' in this case.
* More streamlined NNG build process eliminating unused options.
* Removes experimental `nng_timer()` utility as a non-essential function.
* Deprecated functions 'send_vec' and 'recv_vec' removed.

# nanonext 0.2.0

#### New Features

* Implements full async I/O capabilities 
  + `send_aio()` and `recv_aio()` now return Aio objects, for which the results may be called using `call_aio()`.
* New `request()` and `reply()` functions implement the full logic of an RPC client/server, allowing processes to run concurrently on the client and server.
  + Designed to be run in separate processes, the reply server will await data and apply a function before returning a result.
  + The request client performs an async request to the server and returns immediately with an Aio.
* New `ncurl()` minimalistic http(s) client.
* New `nng_timer()` utility as a demonstration of NNG's multithreading capabilities.
* Allows setting the environment variable 'NANONEXT_TLS' prior to package installation
  + Enables TLS where the system NNG library has been built with TLS support (using Mbed TLS).

#### Updates

* Dialer/listener starts and close operations no longer print a message to stderr when successful for less verbosity by default.
* All send and receive functions, e.g. `send()`/`recv()`, gain a revised 'mode' argument. 
  + This now permits R serialization as an option, consolidating the functionality of the '_vec' series of functions.
* Functions 'send_vec' and 'recv_vec' are deprecated and will be removed in a future release.
* Functions 'ctx_send' and 'ctx_recv' have been renamed `send_ctx()` and `recv_ctx()` for consistency.
* The `$socket_close()` method of nano objects has been renamed `$close()` to better align with the functional API.

# nanonext 0.1.0

* Initial release to CRAN, rOpenSci R-universe and Github.
